‘Nice video. But ultimately pointless ....
You're just preaching to the converted ....
Those who disagree with you will never listen anyway.’
For me, this kind of comment o’erbrims with a world-weary cynicism.
According to this comment people either already agree with you
in which case you’re wasting your breath ....
or they disagree with you, in which case they are fixed ....
and nothing you can say will change that.
So you’re still wasting your breath.
But is any of that true?
Where’s the middle ground here?
Where are the folks who’re undecided on the issue?
Could they perhaps be an important group, receptive to information?
Characterise the issue as dichotomous and that’s the information you’ll get back.
But when we bother to look closer
even ostensibly dichotomous issues tend to elicit a spectrum of opinion
with very healthy, curvaceous distributions.
What about people who’re unaware of the issues being talked about?
Is it not worthwhile putting the issues out there for those people?
So that they have the chance to become aware of the issues, and see what they think about them?
If you believe it’s true that all those who disagree never listen
explain how folks go from being religious fundamentalists to atheists.
How do you account for that transition?
The very word ‘converted’ implies the possibility of change from one state to another.
Clearly, people who disagree often do listen.
And even if someone doesn’t listen at the time
putting a video out there — or a book —
means that it will be available should their preparedness to listen change.
People do change. Not only as individuals, but also on a generational level.
Otherwise we’d never have seen this.
There’s a tacit assumption that discussion with folks who agree with us is worthless.
Personally, I often find discussion with ‘the converted’ very engaging and creative.
I think it can refine our thinking.
I think it can illuminate new perspectives.
It can offer resources.
Some people have a hard time defending their position
because they haven’t yet thought through a lot of the classic arguments.
If counters to those classic arguments are made available
that can be a valuable resource to draw on.
Purely on the grounds of support —
I get PMs from many people who feel extremely isolated in some very oppressive communities
who tell me that it’s good to see people talking about the same stuff.
Videos they see on YouTube make them feel stronger —
give them more confidence in what they believe, and who they are.
Is that pointless?
Discussion with people who agree with us can galvinise us from apathy.
To be more vocal, more visible.
And not to succumb to the futility of sentiments like this.
I’m not just preaching to the converted.
But, like I’ve explained:
even if I was only talking to the converted, that would be no less worthwhile to me.
Humanity isn’t divided into ‘agree’ or ‘disagree’ and never the twain shall meet.
Humanity is a spectrum
with many people undergoing huge, sometimes polar transformations of attitude, during their lifetime.
Addressing that vast amorphous crowd ....
being part of that relentless human conversation ....
seems far from pointless to me.